Okay, just like Spring MVC, we have a
testing framework  We're gonna go
through in this video and show you how
to use that. So, I have the
CategoryController that I created in the last
video, and what I wanna do is come in
and create a test. So, I just did a alt
enter there. Create Test.
And let's test both of these. We will
run a setUp method. Let's go ahead and
you can see that selecting JUnit4. I
have not started using JUnit5 yet. That
it's just start coming out on the market,
and I think, I'm gonna add a whole
section on JUnit 5 to the course
because that is gonna become the new
de facto standard. So, I am going to add
that to Git. So now, this is the stub that
IntelliJ created. I'm gonna add a couple
properties to it. First thing would be
the WebTestClient.
And we'll have CategoryRepository.
And of course, CategoryController. So, those are gonna be the things that we need. Now, we
wanna set this up. First thing we need
to do is the categoryRepository.
This is a another way of creating a Mock.
I can just call the class.
So, there's actually
several different ways to initialize Mocks.
And it helps to figure out the right
property there. That's why that was
unhappy.
So, that's injecting our mock object into
the CategoryController. Now, we wanna
set up our WebTestClient.
This is gonna build an instance
of the WebTestClient, that we can use for
our testing.
Let's come over here, write our list test.
I'm gonna... not sure if I showed you
guys this before.
We're gonna say one findAll occurs.
Because I have Flux.just. Now, this is where
it's handy, that we added in our builder
methods.
I'm gonna set up two of these.
So, it's building up to Category
objects.
So, that's a behavior-driven Mockito. So,
we're gonna say given findAll, when the
categoryRepository, findAll method is
invoked. We're gonna return back a
Flux.
That's the reactive type. We're gonna
return back that Flux, just like the
repository would. So, that sets up our
mock for the controller. So now, let's go
ahead and invoke that.
add where the v1 in there.
v1/categories.
We're just gonna expect back a list.
So pretty simple test here. So, we're
gonna say to run a get against the uri
/api/v1/categories and exchange the list.
And that should run
okay. Let's go ahead and run that now.
You can see that as happy, and just, I
don't trust things when they pass on the
first time. So, let's make sure that its
actually working.
You'll force a failure there.
So, that is in fact working.
Now, let's do the same thing for the
getById method.
And this time, we're gonna do a Mono.
I think I made mistake there with
manage. Let's try just a String.
So, I'm setting up the Mockito to return
back by id. I'm just gonna say
some id, and I'm gonna just copy this guy
here.
I'm gonna say some id, exchange, expectBody. I think we just get rid of the
list.
Don't have to worry about that.
So, I'll go ahead and run this.
So now, we have two tests that are now
passing. We'll go ahead and run the whole
class, just to double-check.
Now, we can see that, we do have passing
unit tests over the controller. So, our
controller is now completely tested. I'll
show you one other thing here, a run
option. I don't think I've shown you this
yet in the course. A run option here is
you can run with coverage,
and this is gonna generate test
coverage for us. So now, you can see that
IntelliJ pops up with test coverage, and
if I come over here to my controller,
I'll check on that, so you can see, it
gets highlighted here. So, these are
the things that are tested. If I didn't
have test coverage on it, you'd see a
little red there. That's
actually, it should be like green
greenish a little bar there. Meaning that,
we do have tests covered. So,
that's all good stuff here. In the
following sections, we are gonna build
out the controller to add in the
additional functions that we need for
creating categories and updating
categories and deleting categories.
Anyway, we'll continue to build out our
unit tests, as we progress through the
course.